Add documentation for Custom Roles feature (#4293)
temporalio/documentation: docs/cloud/manage-access/custom-roles.mdx

---
id: custom-roles
title: Manage custom roles
sidebar_label: Manage custom roles
description: Custom roles enable users to create fine-grained authorization in Temporal Cloud. This will give you precise control over who can do what within your account.
slug: /cloud/manage-access/custom-roles
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
  - explanation
  - feature
  - manage access
  - custom roles
  - how to
tags:
  - Temporal Cloud
  - custom roles
  - user management
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Temporal Cloud currently offers a fixed set of predefined [account-level roles and Namespace-level permissions](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/users#account-level-roles). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Temporal Cloud offers a set of predefined [account-level roles and Namespace-level permissions](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/users#account-level-roles). 
```

These roles are sufficient for many Temporal use cases, but not for supporting enterprise-grade access models
that require least privilege, delegation, and automation-safe permissions. 

## What are Custom Roles?

Custom Roles enable you to define your own roles as bundles of permission primitives (operations/actions) 
scoped to applicable resources (namespaces, projects, account objects) and assign them to any 
principal (user, group, service account). 

## Why use Custom Roles?

Use Custom Roles if you want more fine-grained authentication than Temporal Cloud's predefined roles and permissions provide.

Use Custom Roles if your access model requires the Principle of Least Privilege or delegation.

Using Custom Roles with [Service Accounts](/cloud/service-accounts) can make them more secure for automation purposes. 

> ## Defining Custom Roles

Reviewer: Add to https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/limits and link from here?

Custom Roles are made up of bundles of permission operations that map to Temporal Control Plane operations.
You can scope a permission to all resources of a type, or to specific resources.

For example, the following JSON code defines a global, read-only Namespace role called `NamespaceGlobalReadOnly`,
to use for auditing and monitoring. 
Users with this role will be able to retrieve information about any Namespace, but will not be able to modify them.
The `grants` field is an array of the available permission operations, in this case `cloud.namespace.list` and `cloud.namespace.get`.
The operations are limited to a `resourceType` of `Namespace`, and the scope is `all`.

You can scope roles to:
* All resources of a given type
* Specific resources by explicit ID list

> * Resource subsets

Author: Fixed.

---
id: custom-roles
title: Manage custom roles
sidebar_label: Manage custom roles

> description: Custom roles enable users to create fine-grained authorization in Temporal Cloud. This will give you precise control over who can do what within your account.

Reviewer 2: small nit. "create fine-grained authorization" sounds a little awkward because we are not "creating authorization" it doesn't create authorization itself but more granular way to manage permission. 

Recommendation: 
"enable users to define granular permissions in Temporal Cloud."

Author: Fixed.

slug: /cloud/manage-access/custom-roles
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
  - explanation
  - feature
  - manage access
  - custom roles
  - how to
tags:
  - Temporal Cloud
  - custom roles
  - user management
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Temporal Cloud offers a set of predefined [account-level roles and Namespace-level permissions](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/users#account-level-roles). 
These roles are sufficient for many Temporal use cases, but can't cover all combinations of  least privilege, delegation, and automation-safe permissions often required in large enterprises.

> 

Reviewer 2: add what you had in the description here? I like that it is very straightforward and easy to understand:
"With Custom Roles, you can define granular permissions in Temporal Cloud, giving your team precise control over who can perform specific actions within your account."

Author: Done.

## What are Custom Roles?

Custom Roles enable you to define your own roles as bundles of permission primitives (operations/actions) 

> scoped to applicable resources (namespaces or account objects) and assign them to any 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
scoped to Temporal Cloud resources (e.g. [Account](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/manage-access#temporal-cloud-accounts), [Namespace](https://docs.temporal.io/namespaces), [Nexus Endpoint](https://docs.temporal.io/nexus/endpoints), [Connectivity Rule](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/connectivity#connectivity-rules) and assign them to any

Author: Added.

principal (user, group, service account). 

## Why use Custom Roles?

Use Custom Roles if you want more fine-grained authentication than Temporal Cloud's predefined roles and permissions provide.

Use Custom Roles if your access model enforces least-privilege access to grant users and service accounts only the operations they explicitly need, and no more.

> Using Custom Roles with [Service Accounts](/cloud/service-accounts) can make them more secure for automation purposes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use Custom Roles when you need more granular access control than the [predefined roles](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/users#account-level-roles) provide. Common use cases include: 
- **Least-privilege access**: Grant users only the permissions they need to perform their job functions.

- **Delegated administration**: Allow teams to manage specific Temporal Cloud resources without granting full account administration privileges. 

- **Service account security**: Create narrowly scoped permissions for automation and integrations, reducing risk if credentials are compromised.

Author: Added.

## Custom Roles limits

For more information about the limits of Custom Roles, see [Custom Roles limits](/cloud/limits#custom-role-limits).

## Defining Custom Roles

> Custom Roles are made up of bundles of permission operations that map to Temporal Control Plane operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom Roles are user-defined collections of permissions that grant access to specific Temporal Cloud resources and operations.

Author: Added.

> You can scope a permission to all resources of a type, or to specific resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Permissions can be scoped to either all resources of a given type or a selected set of resources.

Author: Added.

For example, the following JSON code defines a global, read-only Namespace role called `NamespaceGlobalReadOnly`,
to use for auditing and monitoring. 
Users with this role will be able to retrieve information about any Namespace, but will not be able to modify them.
The `grants` field is an array of the available permission operations, in this case `cloud.namespace.list` and `cloud.namespace.get`.

> The operations are limited to a `resourceType` of `Namespace`, and the scope is `all`.

Reviewer 2: For example, you might want users with the Account Developer role to view all Namespaces for troubleshooting, without allowing them to modify Namespace configuration. To do this, create a Custom Role named `NamespaceGlobalReadOnly` that grants:
- `cloud.namespace.list`, scoped to the Cloud Account
- `cloud.namespace.get`, scoped to all Namespace resources

Author: Added.

You can scope roles to:
* All resources of a given type

> * Specific resources by explicit ID list

Reviewer 2: Delete all 3 lines here about scoping? with the example and explanation above. this might be redundant. 

Explicit ID list can be explained in the later section as details.

Author: Removed.

:::warning Custom Roles are additive only

Custom Roles define a set of granular permissions and assign them alongside a predefined
role. The effective access is the union of both. You cannot use custom roles

> to narrow down or remove permissions from a predefined role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A principal (user, user group, or service account) **must have** a pre-defined account role (e.g. developer, read). Custom Roles define a set of granular permissions and assign them alongside the predefined role. The effective access is the union of both. You cannot 
- use custom roles to narrow down or remove permissions from a predefined role, OR
- replace a pre-defined role with a custom role

Author: Fixed.

:::

## Available permissions

Most of the Control Plane operations listed in the API references ([HTTP](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#description/introduction),
[GRPC](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/grpcapi/)) can be assigned to a Custom Role. 
For the operations that are supported by Custom Roles, you will see the naming specification available next to each API call description.

> The following operations are not available to Custom Roles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following operations are not available to Custom Roles yet:

Author: Personally, I'm not a huge fan of forward-looking statements within Docs. However, this change is small and harmless enough that I'll leave it.

- Creating an API key or a service account. These operations are part of the pre-defined roles (admin or above) and cannot be assigned to other less-privileged roles.
- Operations that require additional role and permission validation, such as Create a Nexus Endpoint.

> - Separating or splitting operations that are part of UpdateNamespace.

Reviewer 2: add link to [UpdateNamespace](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#tag/namespaces/POST/cloud/namespaces/{namespace}) operation.

Author: Fixed.

## Create Custom Roles

<Tabs groupID="create-custom-roles">
  <TabItem value="cloud-ui" label="Cloud UI">

<!-- TBD: The UI is subject to change -->

To create a Custom Role from the Web UI, select Settings in the left sidebar, and then click the Custom Roles tab on the Settings page.

On the Custom Roles tab, you'll see a list of the roles that have already been defined for your account, 50 to a page.
Click the three dots menu to view details about an existing Custom Role, or to edit or delete that role.

Click the Create Custom Role button to create a new role.
On the Create Custom Role page, give the Custom Role a name, and optionally a description.

In the Permissions section, you'll assign the appropriate resources and its permissions.
The following resources are available for Custom Roles:

- Account: Permissions scoped to the current account, listed by type.

> - Project: Permissions scoped to the selected Project, listed by type. You must have at least one Project enabled before you can assign Project permissions to a Custom Role.

Reviewer 2: Delete Project section, we decided to hide Project till we release Projects

Author: Done.

- Namespace: Permissions scoped to the selected Namespace, listed by type. You can only assign permissions to Namespaces to which you have access.
- Nexus Endpoint: Permissions scoped to the selected Nexus Endpoint, listed by type. You much have at least one Nexus Endpoint enabled before you can assign Nexus Endpoint permissions to a Custom Role.
- Connectivity Rules: Permissions scoped to the selected Connectivity Rules, listed by type.

Account-level permissions apply to the current account. 
For each of the other resources, you'll need to first select the resource that you want to grant permissions for.
Once you select a resource, the list of available permissions will appear, and you can turn them on or off as desired.

> TODO: Resolve how we're going to talk about Projects for this release; get clarity on Connectivity Rules.

Reviewer 2: See comment above. We don't need to handle Projects anymore. We will add it back once we release Projects

Author: Done.

At the bottom of the Account tab are permissions that relate to Custom Roles. 
Here, you can define whether members of the Custom Role you're creating will be able to create, update, or delete Custom Roles.

When you're done assiging permissions to resources, click Create Custom Role at the bottom of the page.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cloud-api" label="Cloud Operations API">

Use the [`CreateCustomRoleRequest` API call](https://buf.build/temporalio/cloud-api/docs/main:temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1#temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1.CreateCustomRoleRequest) to create a Custom Role.

> The structure of the `CreateCustomRoleRequest` is as follows:

Reviewer 2: The structure of the `CreateCustomRoleRequest` is defined by a JSON spec, as follows:

Author: Done.

```
{
  "spec": {
    "name": "my-role-name",
    "description": "Optional description",
    "permissions": [
      {
        "actions": ["cloud.namespace.create"],
        "resources": {
          "resource_type": "projects",
          "allow_all": true
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: Let's replace the example below, which can be used for CLI instructions as well see: https://github.com/temporalio/cloud-cli/blob/main/docs/custom-roles.md#the-custom-role-spec

```
{
  "name": "my-role-name"
  "description": "Optional description",
  "permissions": [
    {
      "resources": {
        "resource_type": "namespace",
        "allow_all": true
      },
      "actions": ["cloud.namespace.get"]
    }
  ]
}
```

Reviewer 2: Separately should we provide a full curl example? for instance, see below a full blown examples

 Full curl example — read-only namespace and list users
                                                                                                      
  curl -s -X POST "https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/cloud/custom-roles" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $TEMPORAL_API_KEY" \                                                    
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \                                                             
    -d '{
      "spec": {                                                                                       
        "name": "ns-reader-user-lister",
        "description": "Read all namespaces, list users",                                             
        "permissions": [                                                                              
          {                                                                                           
            "resources": { "resource_type": "namespaces", "allow_all": true },                        
            "actions": ["cloud.namespace.get", "cloud.namespace.list"]
          },                                                                                          
          {
            "resources": { "resource_type": "accounts", "allow_all": true },                          
            "actions": ["cloud.user.list"]
          }                                                                                           
        ]
      }                                                                                               
    }'

Author: Replaced the JSON. Do you want a full curl example if we're including both the API and CLI instructions?

This example creates a Custom Role with the defined `spec`. 
The example shown here creates a role named `my-role-name` and grants the ability to create projects in all Namespaces.
The request returns a `RoleID`.

The following constraints apply to the request:

- **Name constraints:**
    - A name is required, with a max of 64 characters
    - The following characters are allowed: letters (a-z, A-Z), numbers (0-9), hyphens (-), underscores (_)
    - Names are not unique per account, meaning two different roles can share the same name
- **Description constraints:**
    - A description is optional, with a max of 256 characters
- **Permissions constraints:**
    - At least one permission is required
    - You can assign up to 25 permissions per role (account default, may vary) 

**Permission Structure**

Each permission has two parts: actions and resources.

- **Resource Types & Scoping Behavior**

| **Resource Type** | **Scoping Behavior** | NOTE |
| --- | --- | --- |
| account | Account-level; no specific resource ID needed     |  |

> | projects (coming soon)  | [At the time of Custom Roles release] Scoped to default project <br />[Future] Scoped to specific project IDs, or `allow_all: true` for all projects.  | `default` project to start with because with introduction of projects, all namespaces will be moved to `default` project to start with   |

Reviewer 2: we can remove Projects

Author: Done

| Namespaces | Scoped to specific Namespace IDs, or `allow_all: true` for all Namespaces    |  |
| Nexus endpoints | Scoped to specific Nexus endpoint IDs, or `allow_all: true` for all Nexus endpoints |  |

> | connectivity rules | Scoped to specific connectivity rule IDs, or `allow_all: true` for all connectivity rules |  |

Reviewer 2: since we don't need Projects anymore. we probably don't need this table. The scoping behavior is the same across all other resources

Author: I'm going to suggest leaving this table for now. Nothing in it is incorrect, and we'll need it when Projects are added.

Resource IDs must exist in your account. Specifying an unknown resource ID will return an error.

Either `allow_all: true` or `resource_ids` must be set, not both.

> For a list of available actions, see [the list of Custom Role permissions](https://github.com/temporalio/saas-proto/blob/main/protogen/custom_role_permissions.json).

Reviewer 2: This link is the internal json file Eng team produced so that doc and UI team can refer to for creating a user facing content. 

We need a separate reference page created in public doc with this information that is 1) user friendly and 2) in sync with this internal json file so we don't need to manually keep the page updated

Author: New page added and linked accordingly.

    - Account-scoped actions (resource_type: "accounts")

>     - Project-scoped actions (resource_type: "projects")

Reviewer 2: Delete

Author: Done.

    - Namespace-scoped actions (resource_type: "namespaces")
    - Nexus endpoint-scoped actions (resource_type: "nexus_endpoints")
    - Connectivity rule-scoped actions (resource_type: "connectivity_rules")

The following example allows creating Namespaces in all projects.
The action is `cloud.namespace.create`, the resource type is `projects`, and `allow_all` is set to true.

```jsx
  {
    "actions": ["cloud.namespace.create"],
    "resources": {
      "resource_type": "projects",
      "allow_all": true
    }
  }
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This example can be deleted

Reviewer 2: we can keep the two below example: one illustrating specific resource with ID, one illustrate mix and match to all resources.

Author: Fixed.

Permissions can be scoped to either all resources of a given type or a selected set of resources.

For example, you might want users with the Account Developer role to view all Namespaces for troubleshooting, without allowing them to modify Namespace configuration. 
To do this, create a Custom Role named `NamespaceGlobalReadOnly` that grants:

- `cloud.namespace.list`, scoped to the Cloud Account
- `cloud.namespace.get`, scoped to all Namespace resources

:::warning Custom Roles are additive only

A principal (user, user group, or service account) **must have** a predefined account role (such as developer, or read). 
Custom Roles define a set of granular permissions and assign them alongside the predefined role. 
The effective access is the union of both. 
You cannot use custom roles to narrow down or remove permissions from a predefined role. 
You also cannot replace a pre-defined role with a custom role.

:::

## Available permissions

Most of the Control Plane operations listed in the API references ([HTTP](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#description/introduction),
[GRPC](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/grpcapi/)) can be assigned to a Custom Role. 

> For the operations that are supported by Custom Roles, you will see the naming specification available next to each API call description.

Reviewer 2: this is no longer true. @lennessyy has the scripts that shows a list of supported custom roles. I believe it is this page? https://temporal-documentation-git-custom-roles.preview.thundergun.io/cloud/manage-access/_custom_role_permissions_table 

The page @lennessyy has created should be referenced here. For instance

For the operations that are supported by Custom Roles, see [this table](cloud/manage-access/_custom_role_permissions_table)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the operations that are supported by Custom Roles, see [this table](manage-access/permissions-reference#custom-role-permissions)
```

Reviewer 2: confirmed with Lenny in the slack thread: https://temporaltechnologies.slack.com/archives/C0AMMQ09KUJ/p1781805975743259?thread_ts=1781634105.079809&cid=C0AMMQ09KUJ

The following operations are not yet available to Custom Roles:

- Creating an API key or a service account. These operations are part of the pre-defined roles (admin or above) and cannot be assigned to other less-privileged roles.
- Operations that require additional role and permission validation, such as Create a Nexus Endpoint.

> - Separating or splitting operations that are part of [UpdateNamespace](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#tag/namespaces/POST/cloud/namespaces/{namespace}).

Reviewer 2: Suggest to delete this section because we will reference the table above. Otherwise we would have to manually maintain this section.

The structure of the `CreateCustomRoleRequest` is defined by a JSON spec, as follows:

```
{
  "name": "my-role-name"
  "description": "Optional description",
  "permissions": [
    {
      "resources": {
        "resource_type": "namespace",
        "allow_all": true
      },
      "actions": ["cloud.namespace.get"]
    }
  ]
}
```

This example creates a Custom Role with the defined `spec`. 
The example shown here creates a role named `my-role-name` and grants the ability to create projects in all Namespaces.
The request returns a `RoleID`.

The following constraints apply to the request:

- **Name constraints:**
    - A name is required, with a maximum of 64 characters
    - The following characters are allowed: letters (a-z, A-Z), numbers (0-9), hyphens (-), underscores (_)
    - Names are not unique per account, meaning two different roles can share the same name
- **Description constraints:**
    - A description is optional, with a maximum of 256 characters
- **Permissions constraints:**
    - At least one permission is required

>     - You can assign up to 25 permissions per role (account default, may vary) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - A Custom Role can contain up to 20 permissions, see [Custom Roles limits](/cloud/limits#custom-role-limits).
```

    - Nexus endpoint-scoped actions (resource_type: "nexus_endpoints")
    - Connectivity rule-scoped actions (resource_type: "connectivity_rules")

The following example allows read access to specific Namespaces.
The action is `cloud.namespace.get`, the resource type is `namespaces`, and the list of resource IDs is specified.

```jsx
{
    "actions": ["cloud.namespace.get"],
    "resources": {
      "resource_type": "namespaces",
      "resource_ids": ["my-namespace.account-id"]
    }
  }
```

The following example assigns multiple permissions to one Role.
The permissions are assigned in an array, with the action `cloud.namespace.get` granted for all Namespaces, and `cloud.user.list` granted for all accounts.

```jsx
 {
    "spec": {
      "name": "ns-reader-user-lister",
      "description": "Can read namespaces and list users",
      "permissions": [
        {
          "actions": ["cloud.namespace.get"],
          "resources": { "resource_type": "namespaces", "allow_all": true }
        },
        {
          "actions": ["cloud.user.list"],
          "resources": { "resource_type": "accounts", "allow_all": true }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
```

> For more information about the `CustomRole` and `CustomRoleSpec` definitions, see the [Schema Registry](https://buf.build/temporalio/cloud-api/docs/f22f274c493a4c9b931514dca6ffcf44:temporal.api.cloud.identity.v1#temporal.api.cloud.identity.v1.CustomRole).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about the `Custom Role` and `CustomRoleSpec` definitions, see the [HTTP](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#tag/custom-roles) and/or [GRPC](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/grpcapi/) API reference doc. 
```

Reviewer 2: the buf.build page is not recommended to use as customer facing instructions

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="terraform" label="Terraform">

> Instructions to come.

Reviewer 2: Here's the exact text to paste as your GitHub suggestion:
`````suggestion
For more detailed examples on how to manage Custom Roles via Terraform, see the [Terraform provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/temporalio/temporalcloud/latest/docs/resources/custom_role) for usage guidance.

````hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    temporalcloud = {
      source = "temporalio/temporalcloud"
    }
  }
}

provider "temporalcloud" {}

resource "temporalcloud_custom_role" "example_custom_role" {
  name        = "terraform-example-custom-role"
  description = "Example custom role created with Terraform."

  permissions = [
    {
      actions = ["cloud.account.get"]
      resources = {
        resource_type = "account"
        resource_ids  = []
        allow_all     = true
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
````

Reviewer 2: Note that we need to also add add `hcl` to `prism.additionalLanguages` list. HCL grammar is needed for the Terraform code block to load correctly. 

See suggestion from @lennessyy a while back who helped me with this: 
https://temporaltechnologies.slack.com/archives/C01H1G7J98F/p1768503408531449?thread_ts=1768501344.140699&cid=C01H1G7J98F

To create a custom role:

```
temporal cloud custom-role create --spec @role.json
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Assigning Custom Roles to users

Once you have created a Custom Role, it is available on the Identities page to assign to a user
or group, the same as the pre-defined Temporal permissions. 
See [How to update an account-level role in Temporal Cloud](/cloud/users#update-roles)
for more inforamtion.

## Modifying a Custom Role

<Tabs groupID="modify-custom-roles">
  <TabItem value="cloud-ui" label="Cloud UI">

To modify a Custom Role from the Web UI, select Settings in the left sidebar, and then click the Custom Roles tab on the Settings page.

On the Custom Roles tab, you'll see a list of the roles that have already been defined for your account, 50 to a page.
Click the three dots menu of the Custom Role you want to modify and select Edit.

The Edit Custom Role page has the same options as the Create Custom Role page. 
You can change the Custom Role's name or description, or you can modify any of the current permissions assigned to that Role.

When finished, click Update Custom Role.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cloud-api" label="Cloud Operations API">

> Use the [`UpdateCustomRoleRequest` API call](https://buf.build/temporalio/cloud-api/docs/main:temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1#temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1.UpdateCustomRoleRequest) to modify the Custom Role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the UpdateCustomRole API ([HTTP](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#tag/custom-roles/POST/cloud/custom-roles/{roleId}), [GRPC](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/grpcapi/#updatecustomrole))to modify the Custom Role. 
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="terraform" label="Terraform">

> Instructions to come.

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
To update a Custom Role, modify the `temporalcloud_custom_role` resource in your Terraform configuration and run `terraform apply`. 
Updating a Custom Role replaces the full permissions list. Include all permissions you want to retain. Any permission omitted from the update will be removed.

For more details see the [Terraform provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/temporalio/temporalcloud/latest/docs/resources/custom_role).
````

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cloud-cli" label="Cloud CLI">

To update a role spec by ID, use `update`:

```
temporal cloud custom-role update --role-id my-role-id --spec @role.json
```

You can override the resource version explicitly with `--resource-version`; otherwise the latest version is fetched and used.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Delete a Custom Role

<Tabs groupID="delete-custom-roles">
  <TabItem value="cloud-ui" label="Cloud UI">

To delete a Custom Role from the Web UI, select Settings in the left sidebar, and then click the Custom Roles tab on the Settings page.

On the Custom Roles tab, you'll see a list of the roles that have already been defined for your account, 50 to a page.
Click the three dots menu of the Custom Role you want to delete and select Delete.
A pop-up notification will let you know that the Custom Role has been deleted.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cloud-api" label="Cloud Operations API">

> Use the [`UpdateCustomRoleRequest` API call](https://buf.build/temporalio/cloud-api/docs/main:temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1#temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1.DeleteCustomRoleRequest) to delete the Custom Role:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the DeleteCustomRole API ([HTTP](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#tag/custom-roles/DELETE/cloud/custom-roles/{roleId}), [GRPC](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/grpcapi/#deletecustomrole))to delete the Custom Role.
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="terraform" label="Terraform">

> Instructions to come.

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
To delete a Custom Role, remove the `temporalcloud_custom_role` resource block from your Terraform configuration and run `terraform apply`. You can also target a specific resource:

Deleting a Custom Role permanently removes it and automatically revokes it from all principals it was assigned to. This action cannot be undone.

For more details see the [Terraform provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/temporalio/temporalcloud/latest/docs/resources/custom_role).

````

## What are Custom Roles?

Custom Roles enable you to define your own roles as bundles of permission primitives (operations/actions) 
scoped to applicable resources (namespaces or account objects) and assign them to any 
principal (user, group, service account). 

## Why use Custom Roles?

Use Custom Roles if you want more fine-grained authentication than Temporal Cloud's predefined roles and permissions provide.

Use Custom Roles if your access model enforces least-privilege access to grant users and service accounts only the operations they explicitly need, and no more.

Using Custom Roles with [Service Accounts](/cloud/service-accounts) can make them more secure for automation purposes. 

## Custom Roles limits

For more information about the limits of Custom Roles, see [Custom Roles limits](/cloud/limits#custom-role-limits).

> ## Defining Custom Roles

Reviewer 2: Can we also somewhere add the naming standard/convention? See information below
    - Allowed characters:  a-z A-Z 0-9 _ -
    - Not allowed: space
    - Special Chars only _ and -
    - Max length: 64 characters
    - Min Length: 1 character
    - Unique per account: NO

Author: Added below.

Account Owners can delegate Custom Role administration to other roles such as Global Admin, but this comes with risk.
If the Account Owner creates a Custom Role that includes the ability to create, update, or assign Custom Roles, and assigns 
that role to any other principal, such as Global Admin or Developer, users with that new role can create or modify roles with otehr operations and assign them to themselves or others.

:::warning Use caution when delegating Custom Role operations

By default, only the Account Owner can create or assign Custom Roles.
The Account Owner can create roles that have permission to create, modify, or assign roles.
If the Account Owner assigns these roles to another user, that user will have the ability to create or modify roles.
This leads to privilege escalation risk where a user would have the ability to assign themselves or others to a role with any operations, even ones they're not approved for.

:::

The following operations present risk when delegated:

- `cloud.customrole.create`
- `cloud.customrole.update`
- `cloud.customrole.assign`

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Receiving`cloud.customrole.assign` alone does not grant the ability to update a principal's access on its own. Assigning a Custom Role to a user, group, or service account also requires the relevant principal-update permission such as [update a user access](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#tag/users/POST/cloud/users/{userId}). Developer and Read-only predefined roles do not include those permissions. Global Admin can perform full Custom Role delegation after receiving `cloud.customrole.assign` because it has the required principal-update permissions by default.
